Update create a new plugin guides - Closes 1523 (#1660)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/build-blockchain/plugin/schema-types.adoc

= Defining off-chain data structures
Muhammad Talha <muhammad.talha@lightcurve.io>

:toc: preamble
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
// :sectnums:
:docs_sdk: lisk-sdk::
// URLs
:url_github_guides_plugin: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk-examples/tree/development/tutorials/hello/hello_client/src/app/plugins/hello_info
:url_github_schemas: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk-examples/tree/development/tutorials/hello/hello_client/src/app/plugins/hello_info/schemas.ts
:url_github_types: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk-examples/tree/development/tutorials/hello/hello_client/src/app/plugins/hello_info/types.ts

// Project URLS
:url_block_height: glossary.adoc#block-height

> The `HelloInfoPlugin` will need to store data of events emitted by the `HelloModule`. So, On this page, you will learn:
> 
> ====
> * [x] Defining Schemas for events, counter, and height.
> * [x] Defining Types for events, counter, and height.
> * [x] Defining Constants for unique key generation.
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HelloInfoPlugin` will need to store data of events emitted by the `HelloModule`. To achieve this, first define the desired data structures as described on this page.

====
On this page, you will learn:

* [x] Defining types for required data structures.
* [x] Defining corresponding schemas for encrypting/decrypting the data.
* [x] Defining constants required by the plugin.
====
```

Reviewer: i adjusted the element to align with the module guide for consistency, and i changed the description to be more general, so it is better to understand what is explained on this page, without having much context.

Author: ```suggestion
The `HelloInfoPlugin` will need to store data of events emitted by the `HelloModule`. To achieve this, first define the desired data structures as described on this page.
====
On this page, you will learn:
* [x] Defining types for required data structures.
* [x] Defining corresponding schemas for encoding/decoding the data.
* [x] Defining constants required by the plugin.
====
```

TIP: The relevant files discussed in this guide are {url_github_schemas}[schemas.ts] and {url_github_types}[types.ts].

== Defining Schemas
Create a new file called `schemas.ts` inside the `hello_info` directory. 
Inside the `schemas.ts`, we want to define schemas of various data that will be stored by the plugin's database.

These schemas will be used by Lisk Framework for validating, encoding, and decoding data. 
The `HelloInfoPlugin` needs to store three kinds of data.

> . On-chain NewHelloEvent's data, which contains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<NewHelloEvent,On-chain NewHelloEvent's data>>, which contains
```

please add anchor links for the counter and last checked height as well

.. The sender address
.. The hello message
.. The xref:{url_block_height}[block height] where the event was found by HelloInfoPlugin.
. A counter for the number of NewHelloEvents stored off-chain.
It is also used for unique key generation.
. The last block height checked by the plugin.

[#NewHelloEvent]
*On-chain NewHelloEvent's data*: The NewHelloEvent's data will be fetched from the sidechain by the plugin and will be stored in the plugin's database.
The `newHelloEventSchema` will be used for encoding, decoding, and storing the sender address, hello message, and block height in the database.

.hello_client/src/app/plugins/hello_info/schemas.ts
[source,typescript]
----

> export const newHelloEventSchema = {

Reviewer: The naming `newHelloEventSchema` is misleading and confusing, because we use the exact same name for the NewHello event of the module. But here, you include the height in the schema, so it is a different data structure, so it should use a different name. Please find another descriptive name here.

    $id: '/helloInfo/new_hello',
    type: 'object',
    required: ['senderAddress', 'message', 'height'],
    properties: {
        senderAddress: {
            dataType: 'bytes',
            fieldNumber: 1,
        },
        message: {
            dataType: 'string',
            fieldNumber: 2,
        },
        height: {
            dataType: 'uint32',
            fieldNumber: 3,
        },
    },
};
----

> *A Counter for NewHelloEvents stored off-chain:* The HelloInfoPlugin will store a counter for the number of NewHelloEvent stored in the off-chain database. 

Reviewer: Why is the plugin not using the counter from the Hello module?

Author: Do you mean the counter-store schema? Probably because your branch wasn't final at that time.

Each counter's value will also be used for key generation for our off-chain database. So, let's define the `counterSchema` in the `schemas.ts` file.

.hello_client/src/app/plugins/hello_info/schemas.ts
[source,typescript]
----
export const counterSchema = {
    $id: '/helloInfo/counter',
    type: 'object',
    required: ['counter'],
    properties: {
        counter: {
            dataType: 'uint32',
            fieldNumber: 1,
        },
    },
};
----

*Height of the last block checked*: As the name suggests, we want to store the last block height checked by the plugin for NewHelloEvent retrieval.
This will enable the plugin to only check newer blocks of the sidechain for any new hello event.

.hello_client/src/app/plugins/hello_info/schemas.ts
[source,typescript]
----
export const heightSchema = {
    $id: '/helloInfo/height',
    type: 'object',
    required: ['height'],
    properties: {
        height: {
            dataType: 'uint32',
            fieldNumber: 1,
        },
    },
};
----

> == Defining Types

Reviewer: I would describe the types before the schemas, because they are more simple to understand and schemas correspond to them.
